Shell sort is mainly a variation of Insertion Sort. In insertion sort, we move elements only one position ahead. 
When an element has to be moved far ahead, many movements are involved. The idea of ShellSort is to allow the exchange of far items. 
In Shell sort, we make the array h-sorted for a large value of h. We keep reducing the value of h until it becomes 
1. An array is said to be h-sorted if all sublists of every h’th element are sorted.

To understand the Shell sort, lets consider an unsorted array [10, 1, 23, 50, 4, 9, -4] and 
discuss each step taken to sort the array in ascending order. 
In this example, Shell's original sequence is considered hence the intervals (gaps) will be three and one (N=7).

First Pass: For this pass, the gap size is three. Hence, the first element (10) is compared with fourth element (50) and found in the correct order. 
Then the second element (1) is compared with fifth element (4) which are also in the correct order. 
Then, the third element (23) is compared with the sixth element (9), since (23 > 9), the sixth element is replaced by (23) and (9) is stored in a temp variable. 
As, third - gap = 0. Hence there is no element which can be compared with temp, therefore, the third term will be replaced by temp.

After that, the fourth element (50) is compared with the seventh element (-4), since (50 > -4), the seventh element is replaced by (50) and (-4) is stored in a temp variable. 
As, fourth - gap = 1, hence, the temp is again compared with first element (10). since (10 > -4), the fourth element is replaced by (10) and first element is replaced by temp (there is no element which can be compared with temp).

Second Pass: For this pass gap size is one. First four elements are already sorted. After that, 
the fourth element (10) is compared with the fifth element (4), since (10 > 4), 
the fifth element is replaced by (10) and (4) is stored in a temp variable. 
Now, the temp is compared with third element (9) which is greater than temp, 
hence fourth element is replaced by (9). Then, the temp is compared with second element (1) which is less than temp, 
hence third element is replaced by temp. 
After that, sixth and seventh elements are also considered for comparison which are already sorted.
